This is EasyOC v0.1, a simple set of wrappers, rewrites and hacks for Objective C
that make it easier for beginners. The thinking behind its creation is simple:
if you're going to teach people to program, focus on what they can make first
rather than how it all works. So, pointers are gone, @" for strings is gone,
properties are gone, and so on.

Some of the changes will seem trivial (e.g. add: for NSMutableArray), but some
are much more advanced and the combination of trivial and advanced produces
something that is much clearer for first-timers.

It was written by Paul Hudson, but it's licensed under the public domain.
Please use this code however you please.



===
FAQ
===

Q: Why not just teach JavaScript?

A: JavaScript is a great language for lots of things, but my initial goal was to
help children at a school with a 1:1 iPad programme. They could (and arguably
should!) learn JavaScript too, but having something in Objective C means
they can make apps for their iPads.

The goal of EasyOC is to get results quickly, not to teach language and theory.



Q: Why not just use drag-and-drop blocks like code.org?

A: Code.org is an awesome way of teaching logic and program flow, and its link
between draggable coding components and actual code is lovely. EasyOC is designed
for a level up: it's for people who can already code a little and are looking for
an easy way to make apps for their iDevice.



Q: This is just syntactic sugar – surely it just delays the inevitable?

A: It is indeed mostly syntactic sugar, although there are a handful of 
helper functions that simplify things. But it does serve a purpose: by
removing the complexities of the /language/ it lets students focus on
the complexities of the /problem/. 



Q: Your code isn't going to be as fast as proper Objective C - why should I use it?

A: To be fair, EasyOC *is* proper Objective C - insofar as it is syntactically
and semantically valid. Sure, it has wrappers to make things easier to understand,
but the actual performance cost is extremely limited. Clearly using percentages
for colours is suboptimal, but it's a small price to pay.



Q: What's with the "make" class? Why not just use the normal constructors?

A: There are several reasons for this:

1) EasyOC typedefs NSMutableArray* to be "array", which means you can use "array"
as your data type everywhere you need to. However, you can't send messages to it
to create a new array, because "[array arrayWithCapacity:16]" would actually mean
"[array* arrayWithCapacity:16]", which is not valid. The "no pointers" rule
means a better solution was needed.

2) Several constructors expect to see NSStrings being passed in, and having to explain
why @"foo" is different to "foo" is a waste of time at this early point.

3) Many classes have such a wide range of constructors that it can be overwhelming, and
many of them have confusing names for beginners. So, we've trimmed the list to the key
ones, amended all of them to use C strings rather than NSStrings, then changed
parameters such as "alpha" to be "opacity".



Q: Why do you hate pointers so much?

A: Pointers are really important things, but Objective C uses them in what can be a
counter-intuitive way. For example, can you ever say "NSString foo" or
"NSArray bar"? No - these must always be "NSString *foo" or "NSArray *bar".
If these objects can never be statically allocated, why can't clang just add the
pointer for us at compile time? If you think that sounds crazy, consider how
CGContextRef works.



Q: If I make something with this, can I sell it?

A: This code is all public domain. That means you can use it, modify it, rewrite it,
fix it, break it, sell it, and even delete my name and pretend you wrote it.



Q: Now that I've made something, how can I go from here to "real" Objective C?

A: The first step is to look inside the file Rewrites.h, because that's where
Objective C types get munged into EasyOC types. What you'll see is a lot of this:

typedef NSMutableString* string;

That means "when the user says 'string' pretend they meant 'NSMutableString*' instead."
So, if want to graduate from EasyOC, your first step is to change things like "string"
so they are "NSMutableString*". 

You'll also see this kind of thing:

#define object @property (strong)

This two lines mean "when you see 'object' pretend the user had written 
'@property (strong)' instead." So, your next step would be to replace "object"
and "value" with @property (strong) and '@property (assign)'.

You can now delete Rewrites.h, and you're about half way there.

The next step is to look inside the Categories folder. That's where simple method
calls are converted to more advanced method calls, so you need to see the ones
you're using and copy them into your code. If you see C strings being converted
to NSStrings (look for "[NSString stringWithUTF8String:]") then you can just remove
that - if you're working without EasyOC you don't need to use C strings.



Q: Where can I send corrections and hate mail?

A: You can email me at paul.hudson@gmail.com. I live for hate mail.

